># **The Academy**
>## **Jack of all Trades or Master of One**
>### ***The Most Excellent Journeys of a Generalist***
>>Many people have asked me throughout my career, *"Matt, what is your area of expertise?"*.  To which I have replied very confusingly and excitedly to others *"None!"*.  People are often perplexed by my answer. *"So you have no special skills?"*, they often reply. Look, I am not saying that I have no special skills.  I have quite a few in spades but what I pride myself in is the ability to be more than a one-trick pony. It comes from the age-old adage, *"A jack of all trades is a master of none, but oftentimes better than a master of one."*  This can be seen in the many roles throughout my career. I have been a legal intern, a restaurant manager, a district retail manager, an IT helpdesk manager, an IT project manager, a reverse logistics manager, a director of IT, a director of sales, a vice president of sales, a chief operating officer, a business owner, a start-up employee, and the list goes on and on. 
  
>>Some may say that my career path is erratic but I argue that it shows my greatest strength.  That strength is my ability and drives to be a life long learner.  As Stephen Hawking once stated, *"Intelligence is the ability to adapt to change."*  Those words have pierced me to my core and have become my mantra. Every day I set aside some time to learn something new.  As I am writing this small essay, I am learning the foundations of markdown syntax.  While yesterday I built my first most basic website from scratch in Visual Studio.  I use this not only in my professional career but in my home and hobby life as well.  From building my own gaming PC from barebones to installing plumbing in my house, there is a world of information out there with unlimited access. All it takes to acquire it is routine, patience, ambition, and access to the internet. This has led me to jump to other roles that are typically unrelated most of the time by me volunteering to learn and absorb the responsibility.  
  
>>So how is being a generalist a special skill that would apply in the software engineering space?  Well from what I have seen, it is quintessential to the field.  From a programming perspective alone, the more languages you know the more projects you are able to work on.  There are exceptions for sure but for the most part employers are not looking for an expert in just one skill.  They are looking for many.  That is what a generalist does. Besides programming, once employed there are so many other parallel skills that could prove beneficial such as soft skills, quality assurance, documentation, management, etc.  So in summary and to quote one of the greats, *"I am still learning."*  Let me learn what the Academy has to teach.

>>>*Check out my *[LinkedIn Profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mattjclarktech/)* or feel free to send me an *[email]<matt.clark@build412tech.com>*
